# Proposal Form

Senior Project with Dr. Turner  
Nathaniel Welch  
April 10th, 2010  

_This proposal can also be seen online at <http://coffee-shop.heroku.com/>_

## 1. Definition of Senior Project.
 
A senior project is a project which lets a student take what they have learned
during their time at Cal Poly, and apply it to an idea that interests them. In
computer science, students often choose to build a piece of software, because
often in their studies they are focused only on certain topics and usually have
trouble producing something of value in under ten weeks. Cal Poly's
requirements for a senior project are loose, at best, basically requiring a
student to do something, by themselves or in a small group, that requires them
to be in charge and to know when to seek help.

The Computer Science department has slightly stricter requirements. Their
requirements say that a senior project must have "Technical accomplishment",
"Diligent execution", and "Effective communication". I agree with these three
requirements because they seem to encapsulate what a student should be when
they graduate from Cal Poly's distinguished computer science department. They
should be interested in challenging what they know and be willing to learn more
about our ever changing field on their own. CSC students should also be able to
manage their time between learning new things, creating new software,
maintaining their software, and everything else. Finally Computer Science
graduates should be able to communicate their successes, and failures, to those
who are both technically and non-technically oriented.

## 2. Type of Senior Project Proposed.
 
I would like to build a software system to help non-technical writers write
books on Linux.

## 3. Expected Abstract of Senior Project.

For my senior project I will be building a desktop application similar to
[WriteRoom][writeroom] and [OmmWriter][ommwriter]. These two applications are
both word processors for the Mac OS X operating system. They take what is
commonly described as a reset on word processing software, bringing the
software back to the days of Microsoft Word 3.0 and Word Perfect. They do this
by spending more time on focusing on the design of the software interface, and
focusing on keeping it minimalistic, instead of filling the product with new
obscure features, which is an common complaint against the current iterations
of Microsoft Word.

## 4. Proposed Table of Contents.

 1. Abstract
 2. Introduction
 
    Describe the domain
 
 3. Problem description
 
    Where I carefully describe the problem I am interested in
 
 4. Survey of relevant work
 
    Research of the history of word processors, UI Design, and the written word.
 
 5. Your Contribution

    I will talk about why my contribution is needed and what my goal is. I will
    also bring in content from my talks with people around town and talk about
    technical desisions.
 
 6. Evaluation of contribution
 
    Where I explain how my work has meaning and how it improves upon previous
    solutions.

 7. Conclusion, and Bibliography.
 
## 5. Proposed Process Model for Completion.

Attached.

## 6. Senior Project Basic Requirements.

 I want this project to be sort of the antithesis of my time at Cal Poly. The
 computer science department is currently changing from a place built entirely
 around teaching people how to build desktop applications, to a place focused
 on the web and developing for it's concurrency based infrastructure. Most of
 my lower level classes were of the first school of thought, but almost all of
 my upper level classes have had me build web applications, and I also develop
 web applications professionally. Because of this, I would like to build a
 desktop application so I can truly understand the differences between the web
 and the desktop development cycle.

 The following are functional requirements for my project:

 * It must be Open Source
 * The language it is written in must be Open Source
 * It must run on Linux
 * It must run full screen

The following are non-functional requirements for my project:

 * It must promote a distraction free work environment.
 * It must be usable by people who work in various lighting environments
   (writing in a coffee shop, dark room, corporate environment)

## 7. Senior Project Test Plan.

At the very least, I need to be able to sit down in a classroom, coffee shop,
or Dexter Lawn, and type out a paper. When I can do this, and save the document
in some standards compliant format, the software will be done. 

But to actually evaluate my effort I will need to have other people use my
software as well. I plan on running some informal surveys in the Cal Poly
Library, a coffee shop downtown, and on Dexter Lawn to get an idea if users
other than myself find the software useful.

To help we stay on this goal I plan on continuously talking to people
throughout the duration of my senior project, to see how people normally take
notes and write, to see if I can't promote a more natural writing environment.

## 8. Resources List

 * Time with Dr. Turner (An hour every two weeks?)
 * A Ruby book (Obtained...)
 * A book on coding user interfaces with Ruby
 * Coffee
 * Beer
 * 10-15 hours a week to code
 * a GitHub account (Already have...)
 * Someone (Dr. Turner?) to talk to about open-source software licences.
 * Laptop, running Linux, with Ruby 1.9 and vim 7.2 installed (In possession)

### Bibliography so far:

 * Flanagan, David and Matsumoto, Yukihiro. The Ruby Programming Language. Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly Media, 2008.
 * "How to Write a Bibliography" A Research Guide For Students. 10 April 2010 <http://www.aresearchguide.com/12biblio.html>.
 * Vinh, Khoi "Block Writer." Subtraction.Com. 09 May 2006. 12 April 2010 <http://www.subtraction.com/2006/05/09/blockwriter>.
 * Vinh, Khoi "Overcoming Roadblocks to Blockwriter." Subtraction.Com. 01 June 2006. 12 April 2010 <http://www.subtraction.com/2006/06/01/overcoming-r>.

 [writeroom]: http://www.hogbaysoftware.com/products/writeroom
 [ommwriter]: http://www.ommwriter.com/

